we just had this sound and it was a car
just rammed through the crowd and I just
blacked out Make some noise for black
CFE I hardly had a child who I was
always working and I used to hate it
growing up because I just felt like well
when when am I going to become a child
you know and play like other kids the
10th of February tell me about that day
man that was a scary thing for me when I
went to the hospital no one knew what to
do I would literally close my eyes I
wouldn't know whether it's here or here
or here or so it was paralyzed at that
point yeah I stayed for 3 months in the
hospital you know and that depressed me
even more music helped me so much it
brought me peace this is why I share it
it's my way of healing people the same
way it healed me
my childhood where I come from those
things scare me why do those things
scare you cuz it's a story it was for
years hard for me to share so what
happened is
I before this conversation starts I've
got a favor to ask from you 74% of
people that watch this podcast
frequently haven't yet hit the Subscribe
button and 9% of people haven't yet hit
the Bell to turn notifications on the
bigger this platform gets the bigger the
guests get so if you could do me one
favor if you if you ever enjoyed this
podcast please hit the Subscribe button
and turn notifications on without
further Ado I'm Steven Bartlett and this
is the Diary of a CEO I hope nobody's
listening but if you are then please
keep this to
[Music]
yourself so the question that I always
start this podcast with because I I I I
studied childhood psychology for a
little while and it was Illuminating to
me how much of our early years end up
defining and shaping us how we become so
that early context before 12 years old
what what did that look like for
you um when I was born my my parents
were were married my mom was super young
I was the first one
um two other siblings at the time uh my
M married very extremely young probably
like 22 23 already with three kids
divorcing um we were moved to live with
our
grandmother from the maternal side and
she's the one who raised
us and she used to work in a general
hospital in the sewing room but I saw
her working extremely hard to go for
everything she wanted you know like I
look
back and try to imagine how much money
she was earning and look at the
achievements like changing her Mud
House into a a
big
designed respectable house and she did
this Bit by Bit by Bit And as a kid I
was there and I saw it whatever little
money she would have she would buy the
bricks it will wait she buy sand it
waits she buy gravel it waits
everything slowly so that's what I
learned from her like to be assertive
you you wake up you go work also the
strongest thing that I learned from her
is she had cows and she was the only
woman in the
area you know who had cows you know and
she was single woman
and my job was to every morning go milk
the cows before I go to school every
afternoon after school so I hardly had a
child who had like a time to play as a
child out I was always working
5:00 5:30 from 11 years old every single
day and um that was my environment you
know where I'm like okay whatever you
need you just you have to work there's
no other way and so for the few
years she would make sure I'm up she
would make sure you know I'm on time and
eventually it was my thing she didn't
have to wake me up she didn't have to
tell me when to go she didn't have to if
there was a problem with the the cars I
knew what was wrong if I needed to get
medication from the pharmacy you know I
I understood everything eventually it
became my thing you know
um that's that's my childhood where was
your father uh my father remained in
deran and remarried so he started
another family he worked in a factory uh
um they for a company called bacon they
made sweets and
chocolates um that's where he worked and
he just didn't
have he was a nice guy but he
wasn't
present you know so on holidays we go
see him you know he would have nothing
to say he wasn't the guy who was
like how was your day how was school
you know any advice type of thing you
know he wasn't it was just like the way
he was you know
um yet my grandmother was the she was
the man and a woman so she's the one who
basically and I used to hate it growing
up because I just felt like well when
when am I going to become a child you
know and play like other kids and she
was like this she was super straight she
was
like assertive
hardworking you know that's hardly time
to do like all the like the games like
other kids were doing you know so I grew
up with that kind of focus which I hated
because I wanted to be a kid you know
but
then it taught me so much
about just work having a work ethic and
um
that's how I'm able to just pick
up and and leave wherever I can you
know I always referenced this
conversation I had with the with the guy
that trained Michael Jordan and Kobe and
he told me that you know these things
when we're young they end up being the
consequence of our of our greatness of
our talent these hard these hardships we
have but they also always come with a
cost so the lack of play the lack of a a
father figure the situation of you
growing up in a house where you didn't
have a electricity you're milking cows
your your you know your food is cooked
by you creating a fire
Etc what is what is the cost I I can the
the lesson and the value it gave you is
so clear but what is the cost lots
um um one of them is just being to
myself you know um to a point where I
have a very small circle of friends
because I was never just a social guy
you know um so I
was as a kid I
always had to do all the work
alone cuz your friends will sometimes
come you know but then they realized
okay every day you know so they're not
going to always come so I was always
like a loner growing up and then I kind
of
like got comfortable that got
comfortable with trusting my thoughts
and my decisions you know like being
confident in just
myself uh without needing
people you know and that has like
affected a lot of like personal
relationships where if I just feel a
little bit
uneasy I will just remove myself and
it's not hard for me because I'm like
what I really know is myself you know
but it's it's
um um something I want to start working
on because I'm quick to
create a
comfortable space you know I can meet a
stranger and I'm quick to just
like but I I'm much quicker to move as
well you know and it's it's something
that
that I feel is not like
um
real you know but it's doable because
I'm always on the move and and and and
you know but um there are things that
I'm like I need to work on you
know um typically you know I think
there's a bit of a stereotype that that
black men aren't the best at emotions
and some some people point at sort of
generational cycles for that um did you
learn how to express your when you were
young
no I was terrible at it um and there was
no one like I said my grandmother was
quite tough
so and I look at how I am with my kids
you can see when you've
pushed a little bit hard you know in
conversation with with someone and
you're are able to bring them back you
know and explain like look I'm sorry you
know I was a out there this is why and
you know
like so that they understand all the
Dynamics you know and the older
generation was the one that will whip
you you know and tell you it's going to
hurt me that more than it hurts you and
that's it you'll get over it because as
a child you have unconditional love for
your parent you'll eventually get over
it and you're the one coming back making
jokes like nothing happened you know um
but I didn't have like a good role model
in in
anything even this you know uh I used to
like avoid I still
do this uh doing
interviews because there's just
again Society pressure that
if I'm good at making
music am I good in public
speaking so if I play songs nice am I
now a role model to your children more
than
you you know but Society will say oh
don't act this way my kids look up to
you and I'm like but I I'm just a
DJ who's living his life and all of a
sudden it's like no no no but you can't
uh you can't tweat like this because um
it's you you know
so in in the beginning all I wanted to
do was just to play music like I was
that kid even if I'm not invited at a
party I bring my record box and I wait
and I hope they give me a chance you
know like that's all I wanted to do why
why
music uh because it's always been
my um
Escape you know in that house where I
used to to leave and all I did was work
and then in my
room music helped me so much to dream of
these moments you know like if I listen
to to Michael Jackson I imagine where he
lives or in America and that one day
I'll go there you know um that's it it
really like took me to all these places
so it became my my friend you know um
and I
never had an explanation as to even then
what I would do with it like when I
finish high school I'm like I'm going to
go to college and study and my cousins
were like are you crazy then what are
you going to do I didn't
know do do you want to be a teacher I'm
like no but this is what I want to do as
long as I was surrounded by by music
that's all I wanted to do you know uh
because it just it brought me so much
peace
happiness you know and this is why I
share it I share it because of what it
does to me you know it's
my it's my way
of healing people the same way it healed
me I don't know if I'm making sense make
perfect sense you know I sat here and i
i s i I sat with the biggest comedians
in this country and typically with
comedians The Stereotype is that the
comedian
is depressed that so they started
cracking jokes and then one of the
comedians came here and said to me he
said you shouldn't be asking you should
never ask a comedian if they're
depressed because it's usually that they
were doing comedy because one of their
parents were depressed so comedy became
a way for them to see a smile on their
mother's face for the first time or to
see their father Smile For the First
Time music and the role it played in
your
household and just in your environment
outside of yourself um I was wondering
as you're saying that is it all
something that created happiness in
others when you were young that you saw
like your your family or your yeah um
before we moved uh uh to to my
grandmother's place in the Eastern
Cape the structure of my family back
then
was my entire family lived in one house
or not entire but my father and his
brothers so there was about
four
families and that's where music was like
a thing you know one of my uncles my
father's
brother had a like a
small um called them ghetto blasters
yeah yeah so he was the music guy he
loved re he used to play re a lot that's
where I My First Love for re came from
like anything as a kid I I used to know
different Peter Tosh albums Bob Mary and
the Whalers and all that kind of music
and every now and then then it will be
the pop that was happening at the time
and he will take it out and all of us
will be out there and we will dance you
know uh that's that's my my ear
childhood memories with music is that in
that big family when it's hot and it's
summer and we're just all outside and he
plays the music and and now we dance
anything with with music you would find
me that's why I never knew what I would
do with it you know uh but I just knew I
wherever it is sometimes they will send
me to to the
shops and in the township sometimes
there will be like a big Coca-Cola truck
maybe they're promoting a new flavor and
it's parked in this they play music they
send me to buy bread and I don't come
back like literally cuz I'm just there
like I'm just listening to music you
know I don't leave Lally and I get into
trouble you know so wherever there was
music that's how I got into it cuz my
cousin who's also our neighbor him and
his friend had a mobile sound system so
they were doing weddings like graduation
parties and and so during the week he'll
have the sound system connected like
just small speaker and he play loud
music and I'll go there so I'll spend
days there and then I started like they
used to use like cassettes and and you
rewind with the
pan so that's how I started and I would
like learn and I was curious and then
they will take me to the day parties
then I'll be the opening DJ you know but
I was so curious
that I developed the style of playing
you know uh I was a little bit advanced
in
understanding tempos of the
songs and so I wouldn't just randomly
play I play songs that were close
together in Temple and so all of a
sudden the mixes were like almost
Flawless and people were like then I
became their main DJ you know by 145 I
was like their main DJ and the people
booking them would tell them bring that
black boy I like super dark as a kid
bring him you know and then I was more
cheer then I started collecting records
then I but 10 and which were my own and
they bring the system I plug more things
you know and then when I finish school
and I moved to another city back to
Devin where there was
more access to things and I I really got
into it so I was studying jazz music but
I was a DJ on the side and sometimes I
would bring tenta into the school Studio
you know um it was such a fascinating
thing for the Jaz students because we
were there like
learning Jazz scales and like the theory
of music and I'm here with my DJing
equipment you know at some point
actually while I was a jazz student and
a DJ I did a a classical
play like all three same time you know
because me and a friend of mine uh in
the hallway at school
because we were in the choir we were
singing one of the songs we we sang in
high school in the choir and one of the
school lecturers had us and she was
shocked because we were Jazz students
she was like wow you guys you know this
is classical music like you sound so
nice there's a play that's happening at
the playhouse called the Pirates of
penans if you like cool so we went we
auditioned we got the parts so we would
do chess studies after school we go
practice at the
playhouse and we went to perform we did
um I was opening the show like I was a
tener you know um just anything that had
to do with music so from from Jazz when
I was young sorry uh
re then I went through different stages
then there was a time where I was like
obsessed with like
fusion um the then gospel music then
classical music so and I didn't
understand what I was being prepared
for you know all these years I kept
being exposed to different types and I'm
a DJ so then my
taste varies based on understanding
these different genres that's why I was
able to in 2010 do a show with the 24
piece
Orchestra because 8,000 people yeah in
the stadium so course I was exposed to
this music and I knew knew where to
breach you know the Gap the 10th of
February pivotal day in your life yeah
tell me about that
day man 1990 yeah I was talking to to
someone about it cuz it's a story that
it was for years hard for me to share
you know and I'm in a better space now
I'm I'm able to talk about it
um Street Grand mother we at
home uh on the
10th which was like around 800 at night
and she was super strict um no one comes
out the house that late we were sitting
in the house I think after dinner we
hear like people singing outside we all
come out everyone I mean comes out to
see what's happening and there was
people singing there were a group of
people about to pass our house we run to
the crowd with my cousins you know we
were not allowed to but this was nice so
it wasn't a big thing even I mean for
her but my cousin my cousins went back I
didn't why music so I followed the crowd
and the
reason this was happening is because on
the 11th of
February Nelson Mandela was officially
coming out of jail after 27 years so
there was like jubilations around the
entire country this was happening in all
the major cities where people were like
we're going to stay up all night until
the morning you know uh of his release
so this crowd was going to a stadium
which is close to my
house
um that's where the the camping was
going to be the singing until the
morning in the stadium so they went on
the streets basically Gathering more
crowds and we were out close to the
stadium and just out of nowhere we just
had this
sound um and it was a car just came out
of nowhere lights off just rammed
through the crowd um so I was I was not
in the front but I was maybe like 20%
in and I just blacked
out um
and the people were screaming and when I
woke
up um there was fire you know people
were angry so basically this driver
Switched Off the
Lights to literally just kill people
with his car and um so they bent the car
well they bent the guy too and um they
burnt the guy yeah they pulled him out
the car and killed him yeah literally
and he stayed there for hours actually
without anyone coming for him cuz I
remember this happened around 4: in the
morning went to a hospital
around maybe 30 minutes later the cars
took us to hospital I came back from the
hospital around 78 he was still there
like not even covered his car he was
still lying there on the ground
uh that cost his life and someone else's
life who was also in the
crowd um so by that time I mean it's 7
in the morning I'm back from
hospital the announcement happens Nelson
Mandela is finally out of jail we're
watching this from TV I'm sitting on the
couch you know there's just chaos in the
country people are so happy this man is
finally
out and um
I was on the couch in pain you know uh
after the accident and I think what
really happened to me I don't think the
car reached to me I don't think the
car touched me I think the force of the
people that were in front because of the
impact they pushed so hard so what
happened is I dislocated my shoulder but
severely
I had no bruises no cards it just came
off meaning um my nerves that connect
the arm to the body were
snatched and being in a small town when
I went to the hospital no one knew what
to do so I'm there I'm holding my arm
like they don't know if it's broken they
don't know what to do with it you know
so they just gave me a sling and pain
tablets and I went back home but the
pain was couldn't stop and then um the
following day then I went to deran which
is the bigger city to go to like a
bigger
hospital where I stayed for three months
in the hospital you know and even there
they didn't know what to do one morning
they were like okay uh we figured it out
they put a cast so I'll have a cast for
like two weeks
but the damage was here but I was a kid
as well so I didn't understand you know
um so the injury is called braal plexis
which is um a damage of of nerves and
there's nothing you can do to fix damage
nerves they can only fix themselves so
over time um so they Tred different
things at some point I remember I was
being taken to like a
specialist to see if there was life on
my arm
so um because they were thinking of
amputating my arm so they put this
device that had
electricity to see if it's going to I'm
going to fill it and there was just like
probably like 5% of
life and he was like no we don't have to
do it over time the nerves will grow
back and that's what has happened you
know and as a kid I mean I was 14 it was
lifechanging you know um the things I
wouldn't I wasn't able to do uh then
activities there was just things I I
couldn't I was in a music class you know
um so I couldn't participate when on the
piano uh like lessons and we used to
play recorders and so I went through a
phase
where it really affected me and
and just over time I was like actually I
have a life to live when you say you
went through a phase where it really
affected you what what does that mean
specif like why me I mean I mean when
when you are born fine all of a sudden
and kids can be mean so the name calling
comes and you know cuz also I thought it
was going to pass and I would as a kid
even have dreams you know I wake up I'm
like oh I had a dream last night my hand
was working and I was doing this and you
know and so to me it was like maybe next
week maybe next month you know I'm going
to be fine again and so I went through a
lot of that you know and then eventually
acceptance I
okay this is what it is you know um I
have to leave I have to move on and I
kind of like stopped thinking about it
and just focused on
what's
next how do I learn
to um tie my shoes you know um or just
wake up and do everything without
calling for help that was the most
important thing for me because I didn't
want to feel sorry for myself that's the
most important thing where I was like I
need to learn how to not to call anyone
for
anything zero like then that was a big
thing for
me what's the what condition is your
left your left arm in now as we sit here
um it has gained probably like 40%
movement and
um let me put it this way when it
happened I would literally close my eyes
and I would know it
was okay so it was paralyzed at that
point yeah the whole arm I wouldn't know
whether it's here or here or here or you
know um so over time I've started
feeling things I can differentiate
between hot water and cold
water um and every now and then cuz
that's another thing I used to do
physiotherapy a lot and I was a kid and
I used to after school I go and I train
and that and that depressed me even more
because I was waiting for results
you know and I thought I'm training for
muscle that wasn't coming so I couldn't
see
anything and when I stopped I stopped
everything I stopped thinking about it I
stopped waiting for it to be better
acceptance yeah
so uh even now it's
like if I woke up and it was fine do I
even need it that's where I'm at like
doesn't really matter you know um I
think my life has turned out exactly how
it's supposed to this happened to you
when you were 14 but you didn't share it
with the world until 2017 in in a
Facebook post yeah because as an artist
I just felt like I did not want to be
seen as that
guy um
who has a disability you know uh where
it's like oh you know like
um I didn't want a PT party you know I
just wanted to
be understood and had like everyone else
you know so my first album came out in
2005 that's it I just worked on music
released it I used to DJ the way I do
and people think Sky play with his hand
in his pocket what's with that you know
like it looks cool but what's you know I
thought I thought you were just the
coolest
[__] people like cuz the hand
thing in the pocket happened when I was
a kid and cuz I used to have the
slinging and even when I run with other
kids and I us to have to hold this hand
because it was just moving everywhere
and one day I was like I just put it in
the pocket and I was like damn this is
more functional than having a sling
and I never stopped you know and so it
wasn't even a thing like that was like
so deep it just happened when I was
young and I was like actually I feel
comfortable like this and over time it
became you know a thing cuz also being
um the introvert that I am it helps me
in not explaining myself cuz everyone
even now there's
[Music]
um there's things like like that um I'm
support you can buy them from Pharmacy I
have them so when I'm home I use that
and or when I have people at my house I
use it or when I swim and even people
who know me are like are you okay what
happened you know these were things I
was avoiding to be having to explain
myself all the time like you know um I
was like I sit and I look normal like
everyone else and there people promise
you in my life today who don't
know
and it's
fine did it make you work harder or have
to work harder to get to where you are
today
definitely definitely uh especially as a
DJ you know um because I just felt like
this thing was trying to rob me of this
one thing that I really really love and
I will not allow it you know um so it
made me in that sense not even in a
sense of who's going to employ me I'm
[__] my life is a mess it was like if
there's one thing I'm not going to lose
is
music you know I won't stop I have to be
a DJ I have to I have to and I'm from a
the cassette era to the vinyl I mean how
do you take a vinyl out of a
final package with one hand and this
used to stress me and when I look at it
I'm like how will I become a
professional
DJ you know and it takes me not or it
took me not
thinking I just like did it you know
like I'm like this is one thing I want
to do
so I just went all the way I I would go
to school I remember there was a time
where I would spend at least two hours
every day
DJing for I didn't play for a club or
every day two hours of my time because I
and I used to say this like I just want
to be ready like one day when someone
says you're a DJ I'm must boldly say
yeah am you know
and I look now and I play sometimes I'm
like man you
good like
I look at I'm like wow you know because
I developed the style you know um of
playing that is my own based on
understanding myself and what I can do
you know
um I have a friend uh Sandra we grew up
with he's also a DJ
and when I started like back in the day
like really when I was spending time
practicing I I used to be really crazy
and he says this all the time that they
don't even know how crazy you are
because now I don't do I don't do
anything I just play less is more you
know I'm more experienced now but my
understanding of it is like on on a
different level you know but I'm at a
space where I'm like I don't have to
do you know that's where I'm at I think
I have to yeah yeah I don't have to
because I've been there it's like
learning the basic course and you go to
the advanced course you know uh go
Advanced
driving doesn't mean you're going to
come on the road and drive like you were
on the advanced driving school you know
it's just understanding and knowing like
when I look at this
thing it's part of me the deck yeah
quick word from one of my sponsors um
super excited to announce that our new
sponsor for the podcast is Intel a brand
that pretty much every single person
listening to this is a user of but in
some cases you might not even know for
those that don't know Intel is a
technological Powerhouse who have been
driving Technology Innovation and
transformation for more than 50 years we
all know that technology has never been
more important than it is today and
Intel is truly shaping the future of our
industry from keeping us connected
through 5G which we use in all of our
lives every sing single day to
modernizing computers to transforming
businesses through data and analytics
the list goes on and on and on I've been
particularly excited to announce the
sponsorship because we've been using
Intel's technology throughout this
building and on this podcast for some
time now and it makes our lives so much
easier in so many ways especially as it
relates to producing this show for you
so head over to intel. co.uk and you can
find out why they've become an essential
piece of technology in my day-to-day
routine let me know what you think my
girlfriend came upstairs yesterday when
I was having a shower and she said to me
that she tried the C protein shake which
lives on my fridge over there and she
said it's amazing low calories you get
your 20 odd grams of protein you get
your 26 vitamins and minerals and it's
nutritionally complete in the protein
space there's lots of things but it's
hard to find something that is nice
especially when consumed just with water
and that is nutritionally complete and
that has about 100 calories in total
while also giving you your 20 grams of
protein if you haven't tried the heal
protein product do give it a try The
Salted Caramel one if you put put some
ice cubes in it and you put it in a
blender and you try it is as good as
pretty much any milkshake on the market
just mixed with water it's been a game
changer for me because I'm trying to
drop my calorie intake and I'm trying to
be a little bit more healthy with my
diet so this is where heuel fits in my
life thank you here for making a product
that I actually like The Salted Caramel
is my favorite I've got the banana one
here which is the one my girlfriend
likes but for me salted caramel is the
one when you were asked I think you you
were in your early 20s they asked you
you know I think you just was that
around the time You' done the Red Bull
um your your early 20s they asked you in
an interview where you were going to be
in two years oh man do you remember that
was a scary thing for me
um I remember that I'll never forget it
you know I don't think that was me
talking you know I
just um it
was it was Black
Coffee someone I wasn't yet you know um
cuz I I was never that guy you know I
didn't I didn't
have I don't want to insult my schools
and say I didn't have the right
education but you know I look at my kids
schools where they go to they learn
public speaking they know how to present
themselves and they know how to get
across a point a point across they know
how to
speak
and I'm I'm not from there everything
that I kind of like have I had to
figured it out myself you know and so
doing an interview then being asked this
question and at the worst time of my
life
then and give and and give that answer
because the question was where do you
see yourself and I
said they said in two years and I said
in five years just gave myself time I
said in five years I'm going to be one
of the most important
producers I don't know if I said of the
continent or the country country you
know which actually I'm proud of that
because it could have been worse you
know I could have said I want to be
number one I want to be the best
[__] I would I would have said
something crazy like Pumpers you know my
answer was still like very modest and
but I was clear
about what I wanted you know uh but
after saying it I freaked out because
then I realized I need to own this I
need to own it and I need to then start
working towards it you know
and yeah then two years later which was
the
question I released my album and I won
my first award for best album you know
which was low
key then I was the best producer in the
genre in the country you know uh but I
think
I don't know like if it's the awards
that drive me
or just success
itself because it's the narrative that
oh he probably I get a grm like he wants
something more he wants more he wants
more and I don't think I look at things
like that I think I just know
that um I can do more than an award I
can do more than an achievement I can do
more
than you know I'm
capable that's it that's what I'm I'm
I'm I'm fighting for you know uh and
it's a little boy in me who was milking
cows who had no friends who is
like I can especially coming from where
I come
from and that's it it's never really
about I'm the smartest one and I'm I'm
going to the best one uh I'm the most
gifted one it's just like I started with
nothing I'm from like nowhere really
like so and I had nothing to
lose you know so I I threw myself in and
I just want to keep going when you look
back at the you know you said that in
your early 20s two years later your
album wins um wins that amazing award
your career continues to go to the Moon
um when you look back in in hindsight
with wisdom and say ah cuz I think it's
always in hindsight you go that's why I
got here you've talked about the
obsessiveness yeah I get that I get the
drive the hunger but as it relates to
the creativity and the the craftsmanship
and all the other things why you and why
not some other young you know South
African DJ
from the Eastern C uh I
think um it's what I think it's just
being in intentional
about what you want um the people I work
with from the
beginning there always just like the
goal is similar we we don't try
to I don't think we Chase number
one you know we just we we we just want
quality we strive for Quality we
understand the less is
more concept
um I've never and I've tweeted this once
in my country as well I've never gone
for like I want song of the
year those things scare me I just want
to release music that has the kind of
substance that I love why do those
things scare you because I just feel
like then you have to keep chasing the
number one so if I am this year then I
must be next year
otherwise then there's a deep that's
going to come with that if I'm not
so we do what we comfortable with
because what we comfortable with we can
do it again you know and improve it and
improve it so the goal is always the
same like not to try
and go
mainstream it's just be
comfortable you know you can wake me up
tomorrow and be like can you make a song
like
drive I'll be like I can probably better
then oh I can never make that song again
because wow you know it's in my space
you know everything is in my sound Bank
everything I work with is always around
you know and also I think now I'm
clearer as to who I am as an artist you
know I'm more of um
I'll
say 65%
DJ that's where all my energy is then
35%
um uh
producer having sat here with with Diplo
and other um artists Jesse J um the boys
from One Direction Li pay what I heard
over and over again from them is that
with success in music there becomes more
authority figures record labels Etc
telling you how you should sound and
telling you that if you sound like this
then you'll get a number one and it'll
be mainstream etc etc how important over
the course of your career as you look
back has it been to try and stay true to
yourself despite the temptation to fit
someone's that's an easy part for us you
know because first of all what am I
looking for like what I just explain to
you now as being a More DJ than a
producer so DJing pays our bills that's
our Core
Business
therefore that's where we're going to be
strongest and releasing music is the
second part of the
business um so it being the second part
part of the business means it's not the
main thing and so there's no pressure in
then following all the trends that come
and and I've been quite
fortunate uh in my career from the
beginning when I released my first
album I released it with the licensing
deal meaning I did it on my own and I
submitted you know to a label so no one
could
say we don't like number five take out
number seven don't you want to fix
number number two you know it was a Dar
and package
album and that's been the nature of my
production career
where the last album that I did was the
first album with the a label in the US
where there was
that um
Authority you know and it would mostly
come as we're not sure about this one
but what I
did I
separated my African
releases from the global
releases therefore when they're like
we're not sure I'm like it's okay I'll
release it in
Africa where I know it will make more
sense and also it fits the sound that
I'm doing that I wanted to you know so I
remember one of the songs I released was
a song called your eyes with the South
African artist called shik brilliant
song and they were
like
H released it and immediately after it
came out they changed their minds they
were like okay maybe not we'll we'll
also release the
song you know because we were not
following what they want you know and we
were cool with it you know um then after
I released an EP called music is King
which was purely purely for
like the African Market because even now
I I don't have a
label uh so I don't have to have these
conversations about what song I want to
do and how does it
sound um but still when I do my team
knows I want to separate the two Africa
must be on its own because one day I may
wake up and be like I've always been a
fan of cific I want to do a song with
Salif ker and when you do a song with
Salif ker being a gy winning
artist if you put that song on an album
that album might not be
nominated on
the dance electronic
album because the language is foreign
they will take that album and Sh it with
the world
music that means you're competing
against your African brothers and
sisters is which is what I really hate
so my point is I then separate the two
if I want to do a single with an African
artist I can do that if I want to do
like a Grammy quality kind of work I can
still do it but I'm fortunate not to
have those kind of Gatekeepers and
Authority that tell me no and I can
understand with the deep in them you
know they their structures are different
but we we fortunate to we we've structed
our things well how many shows so you
said 60% DJing how many shows do you do
in a busy
year I don't know
man um
IA this summer I think I did 21 just
alone all Saturdays at high right yeah
yeah I was there for two of them so yeah
just Saturdays alone in Visa like 21 of
them and subing then since May so
meaning
every uh
weekend Thursday Friday I'm somewhere
else Sunday I'm somewhere else every
weekend every weekend so Thursday Friday
Saturday and Sunday and Sunday yeah
sometimes you're going to be flying
around that's what we do yeah so before
high I'm somewhere else after high I'm
somewhere else like I had a show here on
a Sunday
yesterday um show I have a show on
Tuesday
tomorrow you know so sometimes it's
Tuesday sometimes it's Wednesdays but
every summer it's
like for every Saturday there's a
Thursday and a Friday and a Sunday
sometimes how many shows is that in a
year though if you were to add up is it
because I read that it was more than 150
sometimes no it is yeah
definitely that's a lot of
shows I think I you know I had I did my
little tour of this podcast and we did
nine and I was [__] knacked
we did nine shows in two months and I
was like I need to wait another year
before I do that because of the
adrenaline and all the feelings and the
emotion and the performance and it's
late and whatever else how how no I
think at this point I mean
um this is what we do you know if you
look at um you made a reference about
Michael Jordan and coob can you imagine
like the hours they spend like to get to
that level you know um it becomes second
nature you know the first thing that
comes to mind is that little boy milking
cows I'm
like this is a blessing so nine
shows you must have made good money for
you to
complain I don't think we made any money
but we we gave you like I'm done
retiring but I I do Wonder because you
know I hear about the the kid that was
milking the cows with no electricity
back in back in South Africa and I you
know sometimes my fear is that that kid
is going to when that kid becomes an
adult he will make decisions which will
compromise other needs because he's so
driven to survive definitely at some
point as you said before I think we
started recording you've got to step out
of survival at some point and go live
that's why therapy is such an important
thing you know uh for us I mean I I I've
had so many different conversations with
South African
artists um some I've had conflict with
and you know when we meet and try to
solve the conflict I'm like let me tell
you what's going to help all of us is
therapy because how do I
go um from being that
boy and you know living in the same
Community where like no one even looked
at
me you know and you first forward I'm
coming back to that same Community like
in a Lamborghini and everyone wants a
picture and it's um it's a mind [__]
just to me you know so you need to
really work on yourself when you cross
that line where it's like someone you
looked up
to uh uh as a kid you thought this guy
is so successful and you realize that
actually you are the successful one so
how is the shift then even in respecting
that person you know cuz then one is
like I'm the king now you know then
another is like you still the king you
did this before me I'm paying so much
respect to you so it's it's a very thin
line between uh um seeing yourself as a
king over everyone else or knowing you
are and still respecting everyone else
and that's the balance for me and it
took me such a long time and I'm still
battling and I'm working on it and I'm a
little bit better now in understanding
the difference between Nati and black
coffee what is the difference between
nauy and black coffee the little boy and
yourself as a DJ um black coffee has all
the
Privileges right like
it's a joke in my house and sometimes
when uh I want to go eat in a restaurant
and I I think late I'm like damn I need
to go and you know and I have I tell my
sister please book and then she's like
oh well not now it used to happen like
that she's like oh it's fully booked and
then I'm like no but just tell them
who's
calling and then she's like oh yeah yeah
table for two sorted you know those are
the packs of
those are black coffee packs where it's
like if na cold the restaurant is
full is if black coffee
called there's a seat for you there's a
table for you so na is a kid that grew
up going through magazine and seeing
model girls you know like thinking wow
if one day I can have a girlfriend like
this
right that's nauy and but na never had
access to that and never would given
where he comes from but black coffee
has access to that
so then sometimes n uses Black Coffee
you know
to to to satisfy nauy where it's like
instead of saying Hi I'm nauy
it's oh you black coffee and I'm like hm
yeah you understand so it's a it's two
different things to a point where even
where I live
now it's crazy but that's how it is
where I first bought myself a house this
is with my divorce story that's not even
final I moved out of the house so I'm
like life is going to be so dope you
know now that I'm a single guy and I
live in this apartment and and
toyss I go back and like wow and then
toys over I'm back home I'm sitting I'm
like this is my life you know like I
just the house I left I just finished
building now I live in an apartment like
a
student let me look for a house for
myself then I look for a house and I
found it so I have the house but now I'm
like it's a big house but it's lonely
cuz I'm from family I leave alone so I'm
like Mom don't don't you want to move
and come stay with me which I think it's
a noble thing you know cuz my mom had
like um heart problem so she moves and
then now I have the warmth of the family
right it's nice and I'm like but is this
my life like I live with my
mother so means I can't bring my friends
here like we can't have a little party
because my mom is in the other room then
it bothers me so much and I think and I
remember having a conversation with my
friend I'm like
man I love it but at the same time I
even told her you know I'm like I just
feel
like I this can't be it you know where
I'm like I'm about to finalize my
divorce and I live with my
mother you know and the most incredible
thing happened I get a phone call just
that week when it was stressing me so
much I get a phone call it's the number
I don't know I'm like yo and then this
guy's like uh my name is Michael I'm
your neighbor and we have this long
conversation on the phone and then he's
like by the
way I'm selling my house and I'm going
away we moving to another country
and just letting you know as a
neighbor and I was like oh thank you God
because it was like um a
solution so I bought the neighbor's
house and in my crazy head the
neighbor's house that's where my mom and
the
children are going to stay that's a
naughty
house right that's where you're going to
find me on the floor on the grass
playing with my children the next door
that's the black coffee house I want to
come to the Black Coffee
House you know but the thing is about
the black coffee house which is what
before we started recording you were
asking me what's on my mind and I was
telling you Legacy Legacy
Legacy I want to build black coffee
house as a like a black coffee house
that would be like a future black coffee
house okay not a current black coffee
house not current but it will be a
future this is where he used to live ah
okay you know so I'm I'm very much
intentional about the things I collect
the art on the wall um like everything
that I do I'm doing to create value in
the house you know to have Ste come to
this house and we take a picture by the
pool and it goes to the wall of of Fame
oh nice you know so tell me when you
know like creates this value out of it
you know any kind of friends that are
you know like unnown in the world that
come to visit we we create all the
memorabilia even even the suit I wore
the Grammys you know frame it and you
know s kept it and the shoes and you
know like that's their whole idea to
kind of like build um like a legacy
project for my kids who are living next
door you know in a normal setting where
uh they're not exposed to or
um their lives are normal you know you
know like having a day with the kids in
the pool and then Drake's walk Drake is
walking in you know like Steve B yeah
you know what I mean so have you that's
the difference between the between black
coffee and I'm just like taking it that
far where I'm understanding that they
different
Dynamics when you told me the story of
going from a divorce in a house to an
apartment Penthouse to a house with your
mother to then moving next door back in
on your own it sounded to me like
someone that was struggling to try and
have the best of both worlds continually
yeah
because in your own words you were told
that the best life was to be married
yeah tried that yeah you discovered that
for you it wasn't so you went to back to
the penthouse yeah which is where yeah
which I was like damn Bachelor single
we're about to yeah and then you're in
the penthouse you go [__] I need to be
back in the house family environment
yeah and then you get the mother back in
and the mom comes in you go
[__] actually
no um the day my divorce is signed how
do I
celebrate you know it can't be in front
of my mother you know so you're right uh
but remember it's it's all the
search that's what it is searching for
happiness and in the end I don't think
we're going to be able to find and
Define it what is your happiness it's
going to be
um it's not a
destination you know it's going to be
like um a series of different things you
know where boxes are ticked you know if
all those boxes ticked though are you
then happy you can't tick them
all cuz cuz life is is so long and we
keep discovering things to take you know
and they all have different meanings you
know uh which is where the the small
boys Journey end you know because if it
was the small boys boxes to tick by now
we will be
done you understand so there's boxes of
an adult like you're saying you live
here and then you extend and then you
know upstairs you keep and then you're
going to be like actually I need to buy
another building that's how it is but
but all these things they we're never
going to stop I often think that um I
was thinking there about advice and you
know a lot of that advice tends to come
from our parents but um I often think
that when we've come from a place of of
hardship and I just think generally I
think this a lot in my own life um
there's words that I wish
I I said or could say now to
my parents there's words that I wish I
could say to my um my mother my father
you spoke so lovingly at the beginning
of this conversation about the role that
your mother played in your
life is your mother still with us yes
she is y I spoke to her on my way here
she is
y are there any words that you found
difficult to say to
her um not anymore you know I love you
was one of
them uh because she it it was
never part of our
family as like an African family to have
that kind of formed and these kind of
conversations you know um even even uh
hugs are still a little bit awkward but
they still hugs because it's never been
their generation didn't do that you know
uh they would show you and you would
know your parents love
you the in the best way they they they
will do it you know and being a parent I
am so much
aware
of how I want to teach my kids to be
able to say it
and like randomly hug them uh because I
never you know had that growing up and
then in the end we are the ones who come
back and teach our parents you know no
matter how awward it gets you know teach
them to say and they then they learn
even though it's
like it's not something they know con
yeah we have a closing tradition on this
podcast where the last guest of asks a
question for the next guest they write
it in the book they don't know who
they're writing it
for the the question that was written
for you and it's funny that oh oh oh
yeah they've written a question for you
but they didn't know who they're writing
it for which is the most amazing thing
ever when you hear this
question what is your favorite
sound
laughter why
because people laugh when they are
happy and going back to what I said in
the beginning I think personally that's
what we searching for as it's a human
race we just looking for
happiness thank you thank you for being
so generous with your time thank you for
giving me some of the best nights of my
life thank you for um coming here
inspiring me thank you for your your
vulnerability which I know will help so
many people and thank you just for being
a creative inspiration for me as I said
I'm I'm trying to DJ at the moment I've
got my decks upstairs so um I I read
that you're looking for you know young
South African Talent
so come get me that's a South African
from bana south of Africa I know I know
I know but yeah thank you so much it's
um thank you man it's been a pleasure
thank you appreciate appreciate your the
invitation it was really I was nervous
about coming here you know like you know
open up and but it worked out well thank
you thanks quick one we have a brand new
sponsor on this podcast which I'm very
excited to tell you about they're a
brand called Blue Jeans by Verizon and
they are a video conferencing and
collaboration toour that has changed the
game for our team so I'm so glad to be
working with them because as you know
one of the most important things for me
is when we have a sponsor it is part of
my world it is part of my life it is
part of my companies as someone who's on
calls pretty much 80% of the day
building my businesses speaking to my
teams all over the world it's the
guaranteed security that differentiates
blue jeans from all of the other options
that are out there in terms of video
conferencing their Enterprise grade
security means you can protect your
organization from malicious attacks and
establish real trust with everyone that
joins your meeting and that is something
there are so many things that make sense
and and make blue jeans um a better
option than the sort of competitors out
there and I'll be talking about all of
those aspects those features and the
reasons why I use blue jeans in the
coming episodes if you want to check it
out you can head to
www.bl jeans.com to learn more
[Music]
h